# ASEAN Chairs Year Country 2008  Thailand 2009 2010  Vietnam 2011
#  Indonesia 2012  Cambodia 2013  Brunei 2014  Myanmar 2015  Malaysia 2016
#  Laos 2017  Philippines 2018  Singapore 2019  Thailand 2020  Vietnam
# 2021  Brunei 2022  Cambodia 2023  Indonesia 2024  Laos 2025  Malaysia

The predecessor of ASEAN was the Association of Southeast Asia (ASA),
formed on 31 July 1961 and consisting of Thailand, the Philippines, and
Malaya.\[11\]\[12\] ASEAN itself was created on 8 August 1967, when the
foreign ministers of five countries---Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand---signed the ASEAN
Declaration.\[13\] According to the Declaration, ASEAN aims to
accelerate economic, social, and cultural development in the region, as
well as promoting regional peace, to collaborate on matters of shared
interest, and to promote Southeast Asian studies and maintain close
cooperation with existing international organisations.\[14\]\[15\]

The creation of ASEAN was initially motivated by the desire to contain
communism,\[16\]\[17\] which had taken a foothold in mainland Asia after
World War II, with the formation of communist governments in North
Korea, China, and Vietnam, accompanied by the so-called communist
\"emergency\" in British Malaya, and unrest in the recently decolonized
Philippines.

These events also encouraged the earlier formation of the South East
Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO), led by the United States, United
Kingdom, and Australia, with several Southeast Asian partners in 1954 as
an extension of \"containment\" policy, seeking to create an Eastern
version of NATO.\[18\] However, the local member states of ASEAN group
achieved greater cohesion in the mid-1970s following a change in the
balance of power after the fall of Saigon and the end of the Vietnam War
in April 1975 and the decline of SEATO.\[19\]\[20\]
